Come back the previous step we had implemented a component for the Zuul API gateway.
server we implemented Zuul logging filter to log the request down in this step what we'll do is we will execute
a few requests that would be intercepted by the Zuul logging filter or the Zuul API gateway server.
Let's launch the API gateway server application up before launching the Netflix Zuul API gateway.
Server up using right click run as java application.
Make sure that you have at least launched up a naming server so you should have the naming.
Server up and running so Netflix Eureka naming server application.
This should be up and running launch.
One of the instances of the currency exchange service so I'll launch up eight thousand.
Make sure that a currency service currency conversion service application is up and running on eight
thousand one hundred and then I would start running the Netflix Zuul API gateway server application so
all that you need to do is go on to the application file in here do a right click and do a run as java application.
So now if we launch the whole thing up.
This is the situation you should be in you should see.
Four applications running at this point.
So you would have the Netflix Eureka naming server applications running the currency exchange service
application is running on eight thousand the currency conversion service application is running on a thousand
one hundred.
And we have the Netflix Zuul API gateway server application running as well.
If you refresh the Eureka server the naming server local host 8 7 6 1 you would see that all the services
are registered in here you'd see that there's a currency conversion service there is a currency exchange
service and the Netflix Zuul API gateway server.
These are all registered with Eureka.
That's cool the way we typically invoke the currency exchange service.
Is just typing in localhost 8000 currency exchange from EUR to INR.
So let's refresh this.
You'd see that the service would execute fine.
It would return port 8000 because that's the one which we are executing it on.
And it says what is the conversion multiple.
That's cool.
This is how we executed this service until now.
Now for this service I would want to execute it through this Zuul API gateway.
So what do we want to do we would want to execute this request through Zuul API gateway if a
consumer directly calls this URL the request will not go through this Zuul gateway.
How do we make the request to go through this Zuul API gateway the port at which we configure the Zuul
API gateways.
Eight seven six five.
So let's pick that up.
So the URL for invoking a request through the API gateway would be localhost.
Eight seven six five.
That's the URL of the API gateway 8765 that's the port.
So localhost eight seven six five.
The next thing that you would need to append in here is the application name.
And after that would go your URI of the service.
So the application name of this currency exchange what is the application name for the currency exchange.
You can see it on the naming server on the naming server.
We see that it's currency exchange service or I can open up application dot properties of the currency
exchange service and pick up the currency exchange service from here so application name it's currency exchange
service and the URI of the service is currency change from to Ok.
This is a very long URL so that's the complete URL to execute a request through the API
Gateway what the API Gateway does is it would log the request because we implemented a logging filter
and it would send the request out to the micro service the currency exchange micro service.
So let's see what would happen.
Now let's go ahead and execute this long.
URL indeed.
You can see that I'm getting a response back.
So I'm sending the request to the API gateway instead of directly calling the micro services.
Now what's happening on the API gateway let's see.
So this is the log for the Netflix Zuul API gateway server application.
You could see that the content of the request is printed on this Zuul API gateway server you can see that
the request is printed.
The request URI is also being printed in here.
So it says currency exchange service currency exchange from EUR.
To INR in this step we executed a request through the API gateway however what we would want to
be able to do is to send the request from the currency conversion service to the currency exchange service.
I would want them to be routed through the API gateway.
Let's see how to act in the next step.